LinkedIn has over 10 different ad
formats that you could use to Showcase
your offers in front of your ideal
audience in an effort to save you time
we put together this article going over
every single different type of AD format
and in this video I'm going to walk you
through the pros and the cons examples
and everything you need to know to
decide which ad formats to get started
with now if you're wondering who am I
and and why you should be listening to
me I'm syia pzm the founder of AD
conversion we are a not only a digital
advertising Academy teaching B2B
marketers around the world how to scale
ads with free courses taught by the
world's best practitioners but we also
run an ad agency running ads for top SAS
companies like active campaign mix panel
Nets spy Checker and we manage seven
figure Global Pay media budgets on
LinkedIn so this is a very introductory
video but just rest assured that I'm
going to focus on the things that
actually matter give you the 8020 so
that way you can understand and make an
informed decision on what's the right
LinkedIn ad format for you so let's dive
into it here uh first things first is
sing sing Le image ads uh these are the
Cornerstone of LinkedIn advertising they
are staple they are the tried and true
uh when in doubt you can't go wrong with
single image ads and single image ads
are actually quite interesting because
uh they they are one ad type but
depending on the dimension you could
have multiple single image ad variations
so for example uh here you can see we've
got two single image ads one from Walnut
and then one from user gems and you can
see they're showcasing different
creative formats structurally a single
image ad has uh introductory text here
at the top the creative visual uh a
headline for the ad and then a CTA
button where it's a preset CTA button
that you have to choose amongst the
different a few different options so
anyways this is a single image ad and in
this case of what you're seeing this is
a single image ad with a creative with a
1200 by 1200 Dimension that's one
variation you could also do 1200 by 628
which is horizontal uh and then you can
also do I believe 628 by 1200 which is a
long vertical uh ad as well so single
image ads it's it's one ad format but
depending on the dimension you could
have three variations of it now from our
internal testing we have found 1,200 by
1200 is the most effective at not only
engagement but also conversions in terms
of driving the most amount of uh
responses from this specific ad type so
if you are going to use single ads
highly recommend leveraging the square
format which is 1200 X 1200 and then
also testing 628x 1200 to do a mobile
only vertical ad format as well now when
it comes to single image ads just some
quick tidbits to know is you're going to
want to use images and copy that
resonates with your target audience so
the more specific and personalized you
can be generally the better off you will
be so if you're targeting a specific you
know persona maybe they're like
marketing leaders if you can call them
out in your image even better uh same
thing with your copy that'll typically
drive a greater response rate all right
moving on next ad type is video ads and
video ads are also just an incredible ad
type at uh not only driving engagement
uh but they're also great at driving
conversion as well but my favorite thing
about uh video ads is the ability to
retarget People based on video
completion so if you want to build brand
affinity and trust and you want to uh
you know get people to be aware of your
brand and the value you bring there's
nothing like video because you know an
image might communicate a thousand words
but a video can do far more and if
somebody can watch a minute 2 minute 3
minute video uh from start to finish
that's going to build way more brand
affinity and Trust than anything else
can do so here's an example of a video
that we actually uh launched announcing
our Ad Agency so basically a few months
ago we we launched the Ad Agency
depending on when you're watching this
video and we have this sales video that
we filmed and basically we're we
launched this sales video and then now
we took the sales video and we're
running it as a video ad and now I can
retarget people based on completion
rates of this specific sales video which
is really powerful so then I can create
some really interesting strategies right
so if somebody watches let's say 75% of
the video 50% of the video then I can
follow up with let's say uh a
conversation ad which is another ad
format which we'll get into in a sec and
now be able to ask them hey do you want
to get on on a demo and you know talk
about how we can help you further so
video ads are really powerful it could
be sales videos uh it could be content
like this YouTube video you're watching
right now if I wanted to really build
brand affinity and trust and demonstrate
our expertise I could take my YouTube
videos and then I can promote them as
video ads really really great stuff so
highly recommend video it could be
simple doesn't have to be high
production but they're very powerful um
also really powerful example of using
video is to Showcase testimonials and
product functionality so highly
recommend like Loom Style videos just
going through your product really raw
behind the scenes that does really well
because you're allowing people to see
what it's like on the other side all
right moving on is Carousel ads and uh
actually one last thing I'll mention
here on video really important if you
are going to run video ads make sure you
have burned in sub capture
because by default when when you're
scrolling through Linkedin sound is off
so you're going to want to make sure you
have those burned in captions so people
can understand what's going on in the
video even if the sound is off all right
Carousel ads so Carousel ads are an
interesting format uh basically you can
set up multiple images and uh they will
automatically scroll you can scroll
through as a user and see what it's like
with each image uh Carousel ads are are
interesting in the sense
of you can create a unique story so
visually with the creative you can uh
you know you can design a beautiful
Carousel that kind of tells a story and
an experience the thing with Carousel
ads though you want to be careful of is
you want to make sure you use one unique
link per card because you could set a
different link per card but if you do
that LinkedIn will charge you
additionally for those different unique
clicks so just to avoid that and not to
get destroyed in terms of your cost per
click prices make sure you have one
unique link per Carousel if you are
going to use this ad format carousels
are interesting we kind of have mixed
feelings about it in terms of
performance um it's definitely good at
driving engagement but in terms of
conversions it can be really hit or miss
so you're going to have to test for
yourself but where I would recommend you
lean into carousels is like if you want
to explain your product you want to
showcase uh use cases features you want
to showcase customer stories and you
want to be able to Showcase multiple of
them in one ad format then that's where
carousels can be a good ad type
all right moving on we have thought
leader ads this is a newer ad type and
it's arguably the best ad type right now
on LinkedIn in terms of cost and
engagement rate the click-through rates
the engagement rates uh all the
associated metrics For Thought leader
ads are pretty off the charts right now
so a thought leader ad uh really helps
you build credibility Drive tremendous
engagement and just showcase your
content in a different way so you can
see here we've got two thought leader ad
examples on screen um and you know it's
a thought leader ad because you can see
the promoted icon here on the top and
thought leader ads is basically just
taking someone's organic LinkedIn post
and then boosting it uh as an ad so it
doesn't look like an ad because it's not
right which is number one which is why
it's so effective because people see
this in their feed and they don't even
realize that it's been promoted and it's
being sponsored to them so if you can
get a specific person to create content
and then you take that content whether
it's educational a direct sales pitch
it's a customer there's so many
different ways you can use thought
leader ads uh to be able to drive
towards your outcome so for example in
this case uh Casey is talking about
active campaign and you know in this
case they could he could if he wanted to
drive signups to active campaign he
could include a link in the post to
drive signups to active campaign in this
case here on the right uh this is a
thought leader ad that's um a
partnership with optio so this person is
promoting optio even though they don't
work at optio I I don't believe or or
maybe they do I could be wrong there but
basically they have a post that's
talking about optio and they're driving
to to opt's landing page right so really
really good ad type and I highly
recommend this one if you haven't tried
it already uh it's it's kind of like a
no-brainer and it doesn't take any
additional resources in terms of
creatives cuz you're just taking an
existing post and you're promoting it
we've actually done videos on thought
leader ads I'll link them in the
description box Bo down below if you
want to learn more about this ad type
but it's a really powerful one
um the three tips here to just kind of
round out on thought leader ads is you
want to make sure that the content that
whoever the thought leader is they
repres represent your brand in a
positive light right it's it's death by
association in some extent so you want
to make sure that they're authentic uh
you want to make sure that they're
credible and you ideally they're they're
someone that already has a following to
a certain extent because they're going
to garnish all that natural organic
engagement and then when you boost it as
an ad it's going to have tremendous more
social proof so we have it linked here
for you this article that goes more into
thought leader ads but definitely test
thought leader ads highly recommend it
okay next one is text ads text ads
they're really simple but uh they are
effective in terms of distribution in
terms of conversions and clickthrough
rates not so much there are exceptions
to the rule I have seen where where text
ads can perform really well at driving
conversions but generally speaking
they're not a conversion oriented ad
where you might want to consider using
text ads is if you just want an
additional touch Point against the
people that matter for a very low cost
the cpms on text ads can be as low as $5
so they are one of the most cheapest ad
types to be able to deliver and if you
use text ads I highly recommend that you
use text ads leveraging the campaign
objective of website visits so that way
you're only charged if somebody clicks
on your text tab so now you're basically
getting thousands of impressions for
free without having to pay for it so
it's just a really cool little
additional touch point to get more
engagement more awareness just stay top
of mind for the accounts and Prospects
that matter because in B2B staying top
of mind is the most important part and
text ads just allow you to do that and
it's just an additional touch point but
just don't expect to get like hundreds
of demos or trial signups from a text ad
it's really not the the main core focus
of this type of AD all right moving on
is is we've got conversation ads which I
kind of talked about a little bit
earlier but conversation ads are a very
powerful ad type at driving a direct
response so if you want to drive webinar
registrations if you want to drive demo
requests free trials uh conference sales
the list goes on I highly recommend
conversation ads they are very engaging
uh they are very personalized they are a
message that gets sent into your
prospects inbox you get to choose who
the sender is and then you can draft a
conversation with preset buttons which
is why they call it a conversation ad
and then be able to create an experience
off of it so for example if I choose
let's book a call maybe a lead form pops
up directs me to a landing page if I
click tell me more it'll move on to a
second message so you get to create this
custom conversation and have these
preset options so that way you can sell
whatever it is you're pitching in your
prospects inbox and because it goes
directly to your prospects inbox box you
have the ability to use personalization
parameters like first name company name
job title industry uh amongst others to
be able to create a relevant and
personalized message definitely
recommend leveraging conversation ads we
see great success with it in the agency
uh in terms of driving direct response
across all types of different offers and
I've actually got a quite a few amount
of conversation at tutorials on my
channel so you can definitely check that
out if you haven't already if you want
to go more into this ad type how to
launch it how to optimize it uh how to
scale it it's all there for you on our
Channel for free and it's a really
strong at type all right moving on is
message ads message ads is similar to
thought uh to conversation ads but the
difference with message ads is there's
not these preset chat buttons where uh
you create these different options for
them and then it has corresponding
actions here it's just one message and
you can see here there's an example from
LinkedIn and then here's an example for
an MBA scholarship invitation that I got
and here you can see there's one message
and then there's one primary CTA message
ads don't get as much love as
conversation ads in terms of performance
um conversation ads typically perform
better than message ads from the
experiments that we have ran but I think
there's kind of like this Resurgence
that's happening with message ads
because so many people are moving to
conversation ads message ads is kind of
becoming this now new opportunity that
was once old so I definitely recommend
adding it to your rotation and testing
and seeing how it does one of the cool
things about the message ad format that
I personally really like is how apparent
the CTA button is which it's very
engaging so it can drive a much better
uh open to click rate so definitely
check this ad type out you can see here
it showcases the CTA on the top CTA on
the bottom and you can just create a a
you know a customized message here all
right moving on we've got Spotlight ads
so Spotlight ads are kind of similar to
text ads they're not a GameChanger ad
type you're not going to get rich you're
not going to drive you know hundreds of
thousands of signups but it's just an
additional touch point at a really low
cost so you can see here this is an
example of a spotlight ad that uh we
created for AC conversion where we're
trying to promote our free courses to
our to B2B advertisers and this this ad
type and alongside with text ads is
really powerful just in your remarketing
campaigns cuz it's just getting it's
just staying top of mind on the people
that matter and you're not paying an arm
and a leg for it because you're using
the website visit objective so you're
only paying if somebody actually clicks
and given the fact that the click the
rate on these ads are abysmal uh you
know it's like less than 0.25% last time
I checked they can do really well for
you at driving really cheap Impressions
so definitely recommend this ad type to
just add into your remarketing layer at
the very minimum because it's low low
CPM high ad recall uh got a really good
article here with some data around CPM
cpcs for spotlight ads compared to some
other AD formats if you want to dive
into that okay follower ads not as
commonly used on LinkedIn follower ads
uh to be honest I haven't had the need
to leverage follower ads like I haven't
really had much success in buying
followers or or really the desire to by
followers but definitely worth
mentioning you can run follower ads they
follow the same format as Spotlight ads
but the only difference is they're going
to your company page where they can
actually follow you um haven't done much
with this myself so can't really recom
recomend it for you but personally
wouldn't invest much money here I would
focus more on text and Spotlight um but
if it matters to you and you want to
test it that is an option next up is
document ads so document ads are
actually quite powerful at engagement
rates so you can use document ads to
take a PDF similar to a carousel but the
difference between a Carousel and a
document is with the document somebody
can actually download your PDF in their
feed uh and then be able to consume the
the content in feed so definitely check
this ad type out you can also retarget
based on engagement of document ad so
it's a really strong ad type to build
your retargeting audiences to then
create to use it as a first touch and
then you can follow up with a second
touch with some some sort of other AD
format like a conversation ad um but
it's a really strong and powerful ad
type at engagement rate so if you
already have PDFs that are working well
for you and you want to make sure people
actually get to read them and you don't
want to have it be locked behind a gate
you can use document ads and you can
showcase it in feed so really really
cool option here and you can also pair
it with the legion form to drive optins
as well so it's like you kind of give
them a preview hey here's what you can
expect and then they can download the
whole PDF to take with them so document
ads are a good one definitely worth
testing next is we've got Leen forms so
Leen forms is more of a variation of an
offer more so than an ad format but it's
worth talking about because it is very
very powerful if you haven't t tested it
I would highly recommend testing lead
forms versus landing pages in our
experience lead forms typically always
perform better than landing pages in
terms of conversions but quality it
could be a little bit different so this
is where the audience targeting and uh
how you set up the lead form is really
important but these are great because
basically it's a pre-filled form so
here's an example uh where they click
the ad this form pops up and it'll just
automatically prefill a lot of the
information for them so it just reduces
friction and then it can easily convert
and it's also really easily trackable as
well in LinkedIn and uh you can download
all the leads and you can integrate it
with your CRM so that way you can work
those leads just like you would somebody
opting in from your landing pages so
lead forms versus landing pages
definitely worth testing as well okay
moving on is we've got connected tv ads
so connected tv ads are a newer ad type
for LinkedIn if you're curious what it
looks like uh it's just a full screen ad
and it'll play on different Publishers
so so connected tv ads I've actually got
this example here from one of our
clients you can just click it and it'll
it'll open up the video um but
essentially connected tv ads will
showcase on different publishing
platforms outside of linkedin's network
like uh for example uh Roku Hulu all
these different Publishers will take
your connected TV ad and then get it in
front of your same LinkedIn audience
through their platforms now we started
getting into testing connected tv ads
because it's a relatively newer ad
format um still not declarative in terms
of like if it's 100% worth of money
versus not but from initial testing we
have found that the reach is much
cheaper on connected tv ads compared to
just infeed LinkedIn video ads and then
in addition to that we do see more
engagement with manager plus seniorities
uh which is quite interesting but we
might have a future video on connected
tv ads in the future when we have more
data more tests more experiments but for
the sake of this video you understand
that this is an option for you if you
want to expand your reach you can use
CTV ads in the LinkedIn platform I hope
this video was helpful we went through a
lot of all the different ad types to
kind of get your brain rolling with
ideas and and you know examples of which
ones you could potentially leverage now
in terms of choosing the right ad format
we have some recommendations for you
here so just in terms of like General
primary campaign goals so if your goal
is to capture demand so meaning you know
get leads get demos signups these are
the recommended ad formats that we've
seen the most success with if the goal
is to create demand so you know raise
awareness about a problem ensure Your
solution explain how you solve the
problem these are the recommended ad
formats that we've seen the most success
with if the goal is to accelerate open
cases so open deals opportunities uh
these are the ads types we' recommend
and then the same thing for brand
awareness these are the ad types we
recommend so definitely leverage this as
inspiration and not restriction you know
at the end of the day everything is
circumstance anal but when we look at
all of our SAS companies we've worked
with time and time again this is the the
mix that we tend to find oursel using
for these different campaign goals if
you want to learn more about how to
measure the performance of each ad
format we've actually got this table
here for you that I will link in the
article in the description box down
below and uh essentially this is just
like a a rubric for you to follow as a
starting point where you can see based
on the ad format these are the kpis
you'll be looking at and then even some
bidding recommendations on how you
should approach each ad format as well
because there are nuances and you can
see we've got them all listed for you
here I hope this video was valuable if
you have any questions let me know in
the comments below and if you haven't
joined us over at at conversion.com feel
free to come sign up and get access to
all of our free on demand courses taught
by legit B2B practitioners and I'll see
you in the next video